# CityDigital-programming-basics
CityDigital - basics of coding

A project collectively taken by Microsoft, Siemens, Accenture, Tyco and UI - Labs to build data services for the city of Chicago in a period of two years. They kick-start this project with Illinois Institute of Technology to understand the basic requirements of collecting data and what they can do with it.
- Analysed 27 data sources of 55 building structures across the City of Chicago with size, usability, etc. and further provide a low level recommendation as to the data storage requirements of each of the data sources. Of these 55 buildings chose 1 building having 20 floors located in the City of Chicago

- Energy data - First data source
-> Contains details Steam, Water, Electricity, Heating Degree by Day, Cooling Degree by Day
-> Data description - Had 5 years of data (from May 2011 to May 2016) at an update rate of 15 minutes (875,000 rows as the total data set for one building)
-> Resulted in downloading about 8960 xls files from an access database (only way to download data).
- Work-order data - Second Data Source
-> contains the work orders across the 55 buildings from January 2015 to May 2016. the dataset was about 17,000 rows across 28 buildings
-> Customized a frequency graph across the words in the description of the work order to rank the work orders in the most frequent to the least frequent work order requests
- Siemens Machine data - Third Data Source
-> Contains the data connecting various machines in the building - AHU (18 nos), CHW, Exhaust, RTU.
-> Collected reports generated by Siemens (5111 nos) and used VB Macros to consolidate them into 22 files (1 for each type of file). Size of 5 million rows in the overall dataset
- Performed univariate Bivariate analysis and categorized the variables into three categories
- Found trends in the data by connecting the Siemens data and work order data 
- 130 graphs, Python(nltk, pandas, matplotlib), VBmacros, azure, SQL, PowerBI


- This is an exploratory data analysis of devices in a building of 20 floors. 

- This is just the codes for various basic exploratory analysis. The codes for acquiring datasets have not been added to this.


